- Many parts of the code are adapted from [seam-carving](https://github.com/andrewdcampbell/seam-carving)
- Reference: https://github.com/esimov/caire

# Paper Summary
- [Seam Carving for Content-Aware Image Resizing](https://perso.crans.org/frenoy/matlab2012/seamcarving.pdf)
- Effective resizing of images should not only use geometric constraints, but consider the image content as well. We present a simple image operator called seam carving that supports content-aware image resizing for both reduction and expansion. A seam is an optimal 8-connected path of pixels on a single image from top to bottom, or left to right, where optimality is defined by an image energy function. By repeatedly carving out or inserting seams in one direction we can change the aspect ratio of an image. By applying these operators in both directions we can retarget the image to a new size. The selection and order of seams protect the content of the image, as defined by the energy function. Seam carving can also be used for image content enhancement and object removal. We support various visual saliency measures for defining the energy of an image, and can also include user input to guide the process. By storing the order of seams in an image we create multi-size images, that are able to continuously change in real time to fit a given size.
- The diversity and versatility of display devices today imposes new demands on digital media. For instance, designers must create different alternatives for web-content and design different layouts for different devices. Moreover, HTML, as well as other standards, can support dynamic changes of page layout and text. Nevertheless, up to date, images, although being one of the key elements in digital media, typically remain rigid in size and cannot deform to fit different layouts automatically. Other cases in which the size, or aspect ratio of an image must change, are to fit into different displays such as cell phones or PDAs, or to print on a given paper size or resolution. Standard image scaling is not sufficient since it is oblivious to the image content and typically can be applied only uniformly. Cropping is limited since it can only remove pixels from the image periphery. More effective resizing can only be achieved by considering the image content and not only geometric constraints. We propose a simple image operator, we term seam-carving, that can change the size of an image by gracefully carving-out or inserting pixels in different parts of the image. Seam carving uses an energy function defining the importance of pixels. A seam is a connected path of low energy pixels crossing the image from top to bottom, or from left to right. By successively removing or inserting seams we can reduce, as well as enlarge, the size of an image in both directions (see Figure 1). For image reduction, seam selection ensures that while preserving the image structure, we remove more of the low energy pixels and fewer of the high energy ones. For image enlarging, the order of seam insertion ensures a balance between the original image content and the artificially inserted pixels. These operators produce, in effect, a content-aware resizing of images.
- We illustrate the application of seam carving and insertion for aspect ratio change, image retargeting, image content enhancement, and object removal. Furthermore, by storing the order of seam removal and insertion operations, and carefully interleaving seams in both vertical and horizontal directions we define multi-size images. Such images can continuously change their size in a content-aware manner. A designer can author a multi-size image once, and the client application, depending on the size needed, can resize the image in real time to fit the exact layout or the display. Seam carving can support several types of energy functions such as gradient magnitude, entropy, visual saliency, eye-gaze movement, and more. The removal or insertion processes are parameter free; however, to allow interactive control, we also provide a scribblebased user interface for adding weights to the energy of an image and guide the desired results. This tool can also be used for authoring multi-size images. To summarize, our main contributions are as follows: • Define seam carving and present its properties. • Present algorithm for image enlarging using seam insertions. • Use seams for content-aware image size manipulations. • Define multi-size images for continuous image retargeting.

- [Improved Seam Carving for Video Retargeting](http://www.eng.tau.ac.il/~avidan/papers/vidret.pdf)